---
layout: post
title: hu·man
---

A lot of things are a whole different to me and you now.

It is really fascinating how we, people, can change drastically within a short period of time. It's not a rare occurence if you'll think about it. And as they say, it's just how things work in life or as I would mention it to my friends, _It's not rocket science_. At first, you may find yourself trying your hardest on every possible situation you're in then all of a sudden you now know how to yield when you realize that things don't always go the way you're expecting it to proceed. After all, we're just humans, and _change_ is the only event that is constant in our eternity. We can't afford to lose too much time trying to save face just to continue living the life that we planned for before. It is always a survival, no matter what you're currently facing, there's always something to think about. There's always an existing thought within your head, a view that may change your chances in the near future. And we must admit, those thoughts become actions more often than what we can control.

Again, we're humans.

Sooner or later, you'll learn how to let a deep breathe out and accept anything that may occur. **You will change** or the circumstance around you will force you to. That's our nature, we improve for what seems the best thing in whatever situation we are in. After those challenges, a lot of possible outcomes may happen — you might lose motivation, you might lose the drive to continue whatever you're yearning to finish, and you might have a hard time trusting people anymore. But in the end, you'll just be fine and you'll carry on with your life. You will accept it and move on anyway, that's how people's minds are built, to be persistent and to plow on. Not immediately afterwards, you don't have to rush, but trust yourself and you'll be back on your feet once again.

Me? I might have lost a few friends in this journey of mine, I might not be as strong willed as before, and I might not be as smart as I thought I was, but I'll have to carry on.

After all, I'm a human.

I'm writing this to remind myself and you that it's fine to lose your footing and to be vulnerable for a while. We'll just have to stand up again and face new challenges or problems. It'll be very hard sometimes as if there's no light at the end of that tunnel you're walking in. But afterwards? You'll bathe in sunlight, you just have to press on.

When all's said and done, we're just humans. 🙂