---
layout: post
title: de·vi·ate
---

In comparison to previous years, I'd say 2022 felt like a swift breeze during a storm. It's so fast yet a lot changed, for the better or worse.

A bunch of things happened last year, I moved on from my previous [company](https://www.mashupgarage.com/) where I learned most of my software engineering skills and decided to specialize on just the frontend side of web. Turned 25, got a tattoo, had earrings, wore better clothes, got hired, continued to work remotely, learned a few Vietnamese words from my co-workers, got to experience an awesome engineering culture, delved more into E2E and unit testing, and then was laid off due to reasons I can't disclose. Now unemployed but happily so, I thought that I should at least take this opportunity to rest and reconsider my career moving forward.

I've weighed and looked at my options which resulted into me working towards shifting into DevOps or Cloud Engineering. For the past 3 weeks, I've been learning and challenging myself with different operations and cloud topics. Wrote scripts, built pipelines, containerized a few apps here and there, tried to deploy on cloud and implemented some optimizations. And what's fun about this is I actually enjoyed the process like I'm learning how to code again. Which is the feeling I was looking for, for the past 2 years, I was aware that I'm burnt out and now I'm more hopeful and dedicated than ever.

Here's to 2023, a year for me to reroute, a literal _change of plans_ but I'm all for it.
